---
slug: "/blog/Reasons-To-Work-For-A-Startup"
date: "2020-6-19"
title: "Reasons To Work For a Startup"
tags:
- Startups
- Career Advice
---

It's been quite a year, hasn't it? We're fighting a plague, an inept government,
systemic racism, and police brutality all at the same time. Not to mention that
whole massive unemployment thing. If you're reading this, there's something like
a 13% unemployment rate right now. Are you unemployed? I am. As of today's date,
I've been effectively unemployed since Mid-March. It's been a wild ride, let me
tell you!

So I'm thinking, if things are this bad for me right now, then others are
probably experiencing something similar. You very well could be in the same boat
as me right now. And if that's the case, then I think I have some advice for you
that you might find helpful. What I'm going to talk about comes from my 4 years
of experience working at [Apervita](https://apervita.com) (a great place to
work!) as well as my time contracting and interviewing with other startups
across the country.

I feel like at this point in my career, I've seen a lot. I've worked for small
businesses and behemoth-sized ad agencies. I've done 6-month contracts and jobs
for family members. But the type of business that I want to talk about today is
  (as you have already guessed), startups.

Startups are very unique places in which to work. They provide chances to work
on truly interesting, and possibly world-changing problems. They open pathways
to wealth that more traditional jobs cannot offer. They are also probably the
best place to start a career for young developers looking to increase their
reputation.


## Startups Can Launch Your Career

Regardless of your age, spending time at a startup will get your name spread
around. Startups need to find an effective team that works well together, and
they need to find that combination of people as quickly as possible. Investor
dollars are on the line, after all. This naturally can lead to a number of
ex-employees, people who for one reason or another just weren't fitting into the
team. When they go, they will bring their memories of you with them, to whatever
new business and team they are joining on the other side. If you have left these
people with positive memories of working with you, they will no doubt recommend
you for future work. Your network can grow much faster than someone else who
works at a company with lower employee turnover.

Even if you have no intentions of leaving your current job, it's never a bad
thing for people in your field to learn about you and your reputation. One day,
you just might be glad they did.


## You Have The Chance to Do Great Things

What even is a startup? Well, I define a startup as a business that is not yet
self-funded and relies on investor capital to operate. Their goal is to prove
the viability of their business model, eventually transitioning from borrowing
money from their investors to earning money for them. 

Startups often set out to achieve incredible goals. There are startups who are
pushing the limits of science and technology. There are startups who are trying
to revolutionize existing industries or even create new ones. There are even
startups who are trying to enact social change. If you find a job in an industry
that you care about personally, you can feel good going to work every day
knowing that not only are you making money, you're doing something that's
important. 

## You Just Might Become Filthy Rich

This next point is not as common, but when you compare working at a startup to
working at an ad agency, you're *way* more likely to get rich from working at
the startup. Why? Well, Stock Options as a benefit are something you just are
not likely to be offered at a regular, established company. This is usually
because most employees simply want to be paid actual money for their work as
opposed to options. Startups, on the other hand, are much more likely to offer
options as a benefit in lieu of a higher salary or other benefits. For younger
people who are just starting out, this may not be the best form of compensation,
but for others who are further along in their career and have some money saved
up, taking stock options might make more sense. Depending on how much you
believe in the business, and how successful you think it will be, taking options
can be your shortcut to abundant wealth.


## You're Going To Learn a Lot

Another great thing about working at a startup is the fact that whatever the
subject or industry your company serves, you are going to learn a ton. This
knowledge will likely benefit you throughout the rest of your career. Let me
give you an example.

While I was at Apervita, there were a number of things that I learned, that
still benefit me today. First, HIPAA certification. HIPAA stands for the Health
Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (that's one of the certification
questions!), and it allows a person to work with medically sensitive data. I was
certified three years in a row during my tenure at Apervita, and I can't tell
you how many job listings I've viewed since then that would require future HIPAA
Certification. Just having that in my background alone is a huge bonus during
interviews. 

Another example that I'll throw in for free was the Agile Methodology. Before
Apervita, I had heard of this mysterious approach to project management, but
never experienced it. After leaving Apervita, I have a robust understanding of
Scrum, Daily Standups, Sprints, and Kanban Boards, too, some of which I have
since applied to other projects. 

In your case it could easily be completely different things that you pick up
during your time at a startup, but I can guarantee you that whatever it is, it
will stay with you and be useful to you for the rest of your career.


## It's Not All Roses and Sunshine

I may have made it seem like startups are wonderful places to work. They
certainly can be! But just as there are pros, there are cons as well. I'll be
addressing that subject in my next post. Thanks for reading!
